# neuron-catalog

A simple web database for keeping track of neurons

---

## Overview

neuron-catalog is a web-based database for small groups (e.g. a lab)
collaborating on neuronal circuit mapping. It provides a simple
platform to organize your notes about driver lines, neuron types,
brain neurons and putative connectivity. Each group that wants to run
the neuron-catalog can run their own server, as the software is free
and open source (GNU Affero General Public License v3). Because it is
run as an isolated, standalone database, the neuron-catalog can be
used as a collaborative lab-notebook to record novel observations
during the process of discovery. Thus, neuron-catalog complements
large-scale efforts which require extensive curation by providing a
collaboration platform before the data are ready for integration into
a finished dataset.

- Home page: [strawlab.org/neuron-catalog](http://strawlab.org/neuron-catalog)
- Project page on github:
[github.com/strawlab/neuron-catalog](https://github.com/strawlab/neuron-catalog)
- demo site: [neuron-catalog demoonstration](https://neuron-catalog.meteor.com)

---

#### Host anywhere

neuron-catalog is simple to install and run on your own
infrastructure.

#### Simple

The user interface is a standard webpage with an emphasis on simple,
intuitive editing. No training should be needed to get up and running.

#### All data available to download

Don't feel locked in. Download all your data any time.

#### Easy to extend

The neuron-catalog is written in Javascript using the powerful [Meteor
framework](https://www.meteor.com). It is implemented as a standard
Meteor application, and hence all the documentation and help from this
large community is directly relevant.

#### Species specific specializations available

Currently for Drosophila melanogaster are several enhancements such as
linking to other online databases. The design is implemented in a way
that would be possible to add similar features for other species.